# Reading 1: Static Checking

## Types

A **type** is a set of values, along with operations that can be performed on those values.

**Operations** are functions that take inputs and produce outputs.

## Static typing

**Statically-typed language:** (静态类型语言), variables can be assigned a type at compile time (before the program runs). Static typing is a particular kind of static checking, which means checking for bugs at compile time.

**Dynamically-typed language:** like JavaScript and Python, this kind of checking is deferred until runtime (while the program is running).

> Static types at compile time, dynamic types at runtime.

## Static checking, dynamic checking, no checking

- **Static checking**: the bug is found automatically before the program even runs.
- **Dynamic checking**: the bug is found automatically when the code is executed.
- **No checking**: the language doesn’t help you find the error at all. You have to watch for it yourself, or end up with wrong answers.

## Big three properties of good software

- **Safe from bugs.** Correctness (correct behavior right now) and defensiveness (correct behavior in the future) are required in any software we build.
- **Easy to understand.** The code has to communicate to future programmers who need to understand it and make changes in it (fix bugs or adding new features). That future programmer might be you, months or years from now. You’ll be surprised how much you forget if you don’t write it down, and how much it helps your own future self to have a good design.
- **Ready for change.** Software always changes. Some designs make it easy to make changes; others require throwing away and rewriting a lot of code.

